OMCompiler/README.cmake.md, before:

**_This an updated version of the PR #6648. That was reverted due to issues with compilation of simulationruntimemsvc target.  This fixes that and brings back the changes from the PR._**

This is an attempt to have a CMake configuration support for OMC. Right now the focus is in getting OMCompiler working.
This is **half way done**. It is here just for early discussion. If it is deemed unnecessary it might be removed completely.

The idea is to aim for recent versions of cmake. (a.k.a "modern" CMake). This means it is intended to work only with **CMake > 3.14**. It should be easy to get this (or later) versions of CMake on most platforms. On _MinGW_ you can use the **Windows** version of CMake which is, right now, at 3.17.2 (stable) .

However, this does not mean that you will need CMake > 3.14 to compile and use OpenModelica as you do now. You should **still be able to compile OpenModelica using the current Makefile based and/or auto-tools based build system** that we are using at the moment even if you have CMake 2.6.

# How to build
**NOTE**: **_This does not yet support bootstrapping AND it also needs an omc with an UPDATED scripting API from this branch itself. This means, after you switch to this branch, you will have to **COMPILE omc ONCE** with the build method that you are currently using. Afterwards you can use the omc generated by this for further MetaModelica compilations._**

It is pretty straightforward cmake stuff.

```sh
$ cd OMCompiler
$ mkdir build_cmake && cd build_cmake

# Wno-dev to hide some cmake warnings from 3rdParty
# Generator, e.g. -G "MSYS Makefiles" for OMDev MSYS
# set install_dir to where you want files to be installed.
$ cmake ../ -Wno-dev -G <your_generator> -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<install_dir>

# -Oline for GNU Makefiles on MinGW/MSYS/OMDev so that your colors do not get messed up.
$ make -j<N> -Oline omc
# $ cmake --build ./ --target omc --parallel <N> # If you want to be generic (other configurations)

# omc will be generated in <build_dir>/Compiler/
$ <build_dir>/Compiler/omc --help

# Install the files if you want
$ cmake -DCOMPONENT=compiler -P cmake_install.cmake # to just install omc
# $ make install # NOTE: This will first build everything. Not just omc.
# $ cmake -P cmake_install.cmake # to install everything that is built

# omc will be installed in <install_dir>/bin/
$ <install_dir>/bin/omc --help
```


**NOTE**: _if you are on Linux like systems omc will check if it is in a folder whose path includes `/bin` or `/lib`. If it is not, it will tell you to update your OPENMODELICAHOME env variable.  Instead, you can just INSTALL the files as shown above or copy or move the generated omc into a folder called <something>/bin for now._

###### Installation can be buggy. It will be improved.

# Benefits
- It forces us to have proper structure.
- Same build configuration on different platforms.
- _Modern_ CMake: automatic configuration propagation.
  - Cleanly specify for each library:
    - Where is is coming from?
    - Which libraries does it depend on?
    - Where do those libraries come from.
    - What header files does it need?
    - What header files should its dependents use?
    - What compilation flags and options does it need?
    - What compilation flags and options its dependents should use?
    - ...
- _Potentially_ use different build systems.
  - Ninja
  - MSBuild (one day, in the distant future)
- Clean out of source builds.
- ...

# Potential (Further improvement)
- Use CMake aware package manager, e.g., vcpkg, connan ...
- Use CMake's fetch_content (configure time downloading) to get anything that is not available through package manager or anything that needs patching and custom handling.

# Progress

- [x] OMCompiler/3rdParty/(most)
- [x] OMCompiler/Parser
- [x] OMCompiler/Compiler/runtime
- [x] OMCompiler/Compiler/Template
- [x] OMCompiler/SimulationRuntime/c/{OpenModelicaRuntime, OpenModelicaFMIRuntime}
  - More can be added as needed.

- [x] Figure out a way to cleanly handle the `MetaModelica` source files to build `libOpenModelica`.
  - This is the big one. To simplify things, the idea is to aim for no bootstrapping support yet. Just compilation using installed OMC.
- [ ] Add a header only interface library for all the common include files. e.g. `openmodelica.h`, `revision.h`
- [ ] Handle all libraries in OMCompiler/SimulationRuntime/c. Some are left for later.
- [ ] No free standing "outside" include directories. All includes should come from dependency targets.

- [ ] ... (Many more if this goes on)

Commit message:

[cmake] Add a custom install target 'install_omc'.
  - This target builds and installs just omc. It is provided just for
    convenience to allow people to use something similar to what they are
    used to do , that is issue 'make install_omc',  instead of having to
    run CMake's separate installation script.

OMCompiler/README.cmake.md, after:

**_This an updated version of the PR #6648. That was reverted due to issues with compilation of simulationruntimemsvc target.  This fixes that and brings back the changes from the PR._**

This is an attempt to have a CMake configuration support for OMC. Right now the focus is in getting OMCompiler working.
This is **half way done**. It is here just for early discussion. If it is deemed unnecessary it might be removed completely.

The idea is to aim for recent versions of cmake. (a.k.a "modern" CMake). This means it is intended to work only with **CMake > 3.14**. It should be easy to get this (or later) versions of CMake on most platforms. On _MinGW_ you can use the **Windows** version of CMake which is, right now, at 3.17.2 (stable) .

However, this does not mean that you will need CMake > 3.14 to compile and use OpenModelica as you do now. You should **still be able to compile OpenModelica using the current Makefile based and/or auto-tools based build system** that we are using at the moment even if you have CMake 2.6.

# Usage
**NOTE**: **_This does not yet support bootstrapping AND it also needs an omc with an UPDATED scripting API from this branch itself. This means, after you switch to this branch, you will have to **COMPILE omc ONCE** with the build method that you are currently using. Afterwards you can use the omc generated by this for further MetaModelica compilations._**

## Build
It is pretty straightforward cmake stuff.

```sh
$ cd OMCompiler
$ mkdir build_cmake && cd build_cmake

# Wno-dev to hide some cmake warnings from 3rdParty
# Generator, e.g. -G "MSYS Makefiles" for OMDev MSYS
# set install_dir to where you want files to be installed.
$ cmake ../ -Wno-dev -G <your_generator> -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<install_dir>

# -Oline for GNU Makefiles on MinGW/MSYS/OMDev so that your colors do not get messed up.
$ make -j<N> -Oline omc
# $ cmake --build ./ --target omc --parallel <N> # If you want to be generic (other configurations)

# omc will be generated in <build_dir>/Compiler/
$ <build_dir>/Compiler/omc --help
```

If you are on Linux like systems omc will check if it is in a folder whose path includes `/bin` or `/lib`. If it is not, it will tell you to update your OPENMODELICAHOME env variable.  Instead, you can just INSTALL the files as shown below or copy or move the generated omc into a folder called <something>/bin for now.

# Install

CMake uses a separate script (cmake_install.cmake) to perform installation. Since we are used to issuing 'make install' by default, CMake
provides an specific built-in 'install' target. However, this target implies a **full build and full install**. That is you have no control on which parts you want to install. If this is what you want to do you can use that.

If you are working on just omc and do not need the whole set of *simulation runtime* libraries built and installed, there is a custom target `install_omc` provided which will build and install what is needed to run omc.

```
# Build and Install just omc
# $ make install_omc # For makefile generators
# $ cmake --build <build_dir> --target install_omc # Generic usage.
# $ cmake -DCOMPONENT=compiler -P cmake_install.cmake # The equivalent cmake_install invocation

# Build and Install everything
# $ make install # NOTE: This will first build everything. Not just omc.
# $ cmake --build <build_dir> --target install # Generic usage.
# $ cmake -P cmake_install.cmake # The equivalent cmake_install invocation

# omc will be installed in <install_dir>/bin/
$ <install_dir>/bin/omc --help
```


###### Installation can be buggy. It will be improved.

# Benefits
- It forces us to have proper structure.
- Same build configuration on different platforms.
- _Modern_ CMake: automatic configuration propagation.
  - Cleanly specify for each library:
    - Where is is coming from?
    - Which libraries does it depend on?
    - Where do those libraries come from.
    - What header files does it need?
    - What header files should its dependents use?
    - What compilation flags and options does it need?
    - What compilation flags and options its dependents should use?
    - ...
- _Potentially_ use different build systems.
  - Ninja
  - MSBuild (one day, in the distant future)
- Clean out of source builds.
- ...

# Potential (Further improvement)
- Use CMake aware package manager, e.g., vcpkg, connan ...
- Use CMake's fetch_content (configure time downloading) to get anything that is not available through package manager or anything that needs patching and custom handling.

# Progress

- [x] OMCompiler/3rdParty/(most)
- [x] OMCompiler/Parser
- [x] OMCompiler/Compiler/runtime
- [x] OMCompiler/Compiler/Template
- [x] OMCompiler/SimulationRuntime/c/{OpenModelicaRuntime, OpenModelicaFMIRuntime}
  - More can be added as needed.

- [x] Figure out a way to cleanly handle the `MetaModelica` source files to build `libOpenModelica`.
  - This is the big one. To simplify things, the idea is to aim for no bootstrapping support yet. Just compilation using installed OMC.
- [ ] Add a header only interface library for all the common include files. e.g. `openmodelica.h`, `revision.h`
- [ ] Handle all libraries in OMCompiler/SimulationRuntime/c. Some are left for later.
- [ ] No free standing "outside" include directories. All includes should come from dependency targets.

- [ ] ... (Many more if this goes on)
